The Internet of Things (IoT) connects people, places, and products, and in so doing, it offers opportunities for value creation and capture. Sophisticated chips, sensors, and actuators are embedded into physical items, each transmitting data to the IoT network. The analytics capabilities of the IoT use this data to convert insights into action, impacting business processes and leading to new ways of working. However, there are still a number of technical and security concerns that remain unaddressed.

Security is a major concern with IoT that has hindered its large-scale deployment. IoT devices often suffer with security vulnerabilities that make them an easy target for Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks. In DDoS attacks, multiple compromised computer systems bombard a target such as a central server with a huge volume of simultaneous data requests, thereby causing a denial of service for users of the targeted system. A number of DDoS attacks in recent years have caused disruption for organisations and individuals. Unsecured IoT devices provide an easy target for cyber-criminals to exploit the weak security protection to hack them into launching DDoS attacks.

Another issue with current IoT networks is that of scalability. As the number of devices connected through an IoT network grows, current centralised systems to authenticate, authorise and connect different nodes in a network will turn into a bottleneck. This would necessitate huge investments into servers that can handle the large amount of information exchange, and the entire network can go down if the server becomes unavailable.

According to Gartner's Forecast, Internet of Things endpoints are expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 32 per cent from 2016 through 2021, reaching an installed base of 25.1 billion units. With IoT devices expected to be such an integral part of our daily lives in the coming years, it is imperative that organisations invest in addressing the above security and scalability challenges.

Another breakthrough technology, blockchain or distributed ledger technology (DLT), has the potential to help address some of the IoT security and scalability challenges. Blockchain is an ‘information game changer’ due to its unique capabilities and benefits. At its core, a blockchain system consists of a distributed digital ledger, shared between participants in the system, that resides on the Internet: transactions or events are validated and recorded in the ledger and cannot subsequently be amended or removed. It provides a way for information to be recorded and shared by a community of users. Within this community, selected members maintain their copy of the ledger and must validate any new transactions collectively through a consensus process before they are accepted on to the ledger. For more detailed information on blockchain technology, please refer to Deloitte’s previous publication The Blockchain (R)evolution.

How can blockchain solve IoT security and scalability challenges?
The IoT network can process data transactions across multiple devices that are owned and administered by different organisations, making it difficult to pinpoint the source of any data leakages in case of an attack by cyber-criminals. Additionally, the IoT generates a vast amount of data, and with multiple stakeholders involved, the ownership of the data is not always clear.

Blockchain can help alleviate the security and scalability concerns associated with IoT in the following ways:

The distributed ledger in a blockchain system is tamper-proof and this removes the need for trust among the involved parties. No single organisation has control over the vast amount of data generated by IoT devices.
Using blockchain to store IoT data would add another layer of security that hackers would need to bypass in order to get access to the network. Blockchain provides a much more robust level of encryption that makes it virtually impossible to overwrite existing data records.
Blockchain provides transparency, by allowing anyone who is authorised to access the network to track the transactions that happened in the past. This can provide a reliable way to identify a specific source of any data leakages and take quick remedial action.
Blockchain can enable fast processing of transactions and coordination among billions of connected devices. As the number of interconnected devices grows, the distributed ledger technology provides a viable solution to support the processing of the large number of transactions.
By providing a way to enable trust among the stakeholders, blockchain can allow IoT companies to reduce their costs by eliminating the processing overheads related to IoT gateways (for e.g. traditional protocol, hardware, or communication overhead costs).
Smart contracts, an agreement between two parties that is stored in the blockchain, can further allow the execution of contractual arrangements among stakeholders based on certain criteria being fulfilled. For example, smart contracts can authorise payments automatically, without any need for human intervention, when the conditions for providing a service have been fulfilled.

Some current blockchain-IoT players and their use cases
The technology behind sensors and smart chips is evolving rapidly, making them increasingly portable and applicable for real-time interactions with blockchain ledgers. The combination of blockchain and IoT has broad potential for the creation of a marketplace of services between devices, and gives companies the opportunity to create value from collected data. The growing number of emerging blockchain protocols, partnerships and IoT device providers already indicates that there is a good fit for blockchain in the IoT sector.

Some current Blockchain-IoT players and their use cases are described briefly below. (Please note that the partnerships and companies mentioned in this article should not be considered as endorsements by Deloitte.)

- Chain of Things (CoT) is a consortium of technologists and leading blockchain companies. It investigates the best possible use cases where a combination of blockchain and IoT can offer significant benefits to industrial, environmental, and humanitarian applications. So far, CoT has built Maru, an integrated blockchain and IoT hardware solution to solve issues with identity, security, and interoperability. There are three developed use cases named Chain of Security, Chain of Solar and Chain of Shipping.

- IOTA is a protocol for fast transaction settlement and data integrity, with a Tangle ledger that eliminates the need for expensive mining (validation of transactions). IOTA is a promising infrastructure for IoT devices that need to process large amounts of micro data. Features of the Tangle ledger, which is the distributed ledger that supports IOTA, are machine-to-machine communication, fee-less micropayments, and quantum resistant data. IOTA has built a sensor data marketplace and is entering the market for data-driven insights, supported by more than 20 global corporations.

- Riddle&Code provides cryptographic tagging solutions for blockchains in smart logistics and supply chain management. Working on the integration between IoT devices and distributed ledger networks, Riddle&Code offers a combined, patented hardware and software solution that enables secure and trusted interaction with machines in the IoT age – by giving machines and any physical device a ‘trusted digital identity’. This technology breaks through the physical/digital divide to strike a balance between the demand for paper documentation and the advantages that blockchain technology has to offer.

- Modum.io combines IoT sensors with blockchain technology, providing data integrity for transactions involving physical products. The modum sensors record environmental conditions, such as temperature, that goods are subject to while in transit. When the goods arrive at the next transit point or end customer, the sensor data is verified against predetermined conditions in a smart contract on the blockchain. The contract validates that the conditions meet all of the requirements set out by the sender, their clients, or a regulator and triggers various actions such as notifications to sender and receiver, payment, or release of goods.

Considerations for the adoption of blockchain and IoT technologies
As explain previously, a fundamental problem with current IoT systems is their security architecture, with a centralised client-server model managed by a central authority which makes it susceptible to a single point of failure. Blockchain addresses this problem by decentralising decision-making to a consensus-based shared network of devices. However, when designing the architecture for IoT devices in conjunction with a blockchain ledger, there are three main challenges to consider:

1. Scalability. One of the crucial difficulties still faced by IoT is one of scale - how to handle the massive amounts of data collected by a large network of sensors and potentially lower transaction processing speeds or latencies. Defining a clear data model beforehand can save time and prevent difficulties when bringing the solution into production.

2. Network privacy and transaction confidentiality. The privacy of transaction history in the shared ledger for a network of IoT devices cannot be easily granted on public blockchains. That is because transaction pattern analysis can be applied to make inferences about the identities of users or devices behind public keys. Organisations should investigate their privacy requirements to see whether hybrid or private blockchains might suit their requirements better.

3. Sensors. The reliability of IoT sensors could potentially be undermined by interfering with the correct measurement of the criteria that need to be met to execute a transaction. Measures to ensure the integrity of IoT devices such that they cannot be altered by external interventions are key to securing a safe environment for data recording and transactions.
In conclusion, blockchain and IoT are both emerging technologies with great potential, but still lacking widespread adoption due to technical and security concerns. Several companies in the market are already working on use cases combining the two technologies, as together they offer a way to minimise the security and accompanying business risks.

The Deloitte Garage Innovation Hub: IoT and Blockchain Showroom
Companies should start considering the implementation of blockchain and IoT to address their business issues, ‘starting small’ by learning from current use cases and projects in the industry. Deloitte Switzerland offers clients an interactive experience in a newly-opened Garage Innovation Hub in Zurich, where they can gain hands-on experience of IoT and blockchain technology, initiate discussions and share ideas on solutions. This innovation space is designed to help organisations define their strategy around IoT and blockchain, and to inspire them to pursue it.

----

Blockchain is a distributed database technology that provides very hard to tamper, ledger records. It allows storage of all transactions into immutable records and every record distributed across many participant nodes. The security comes from use of strong public-key cryptography, strong cryptographic hash and complete decentralisation.

Blocks are the key concept of the technology. They are small sets of transactions that have taken place within the system. Each new block stores reference of the previous transaction by including a SHA-256 hash of the previous transaction. In this way, it creates a ‘chain‘ of blocks and hence the name. Blocks are computationally difficult to create, and takes multiple specialised processors and significant amounts of time to generate.

Since generating a block is difficult and to tamper one block, one has to tamper the previous block and then has to follow the chain to change it completely, blockchain technology is considered to be tamper resistant.

Miners are the ones who run powerful computers to create blocks.

So, the key strengths of blockchain technology can be summarised as:

It is strongly tamper-resistant
If is highly scalable due to not having any single point of failure and being peer-to-peer network
It can serve as an immutable system of records for all stakeholders
How IoT can leverage blockchain technology
With IoT started getting into the mainstream industry, the key challenges of the technology is fast emerging. One of the key areas of IoT deployment is security. Following are the key security challenges for IoT infrastructure and services:

With the prospect of devices in the infrastructure growing exponentially, it is a huge challenge to identify, authenticate and secure the devices.
A centralised security model will be very difficult and expensive to scale, maintain and manage.
A centralised security infrastructure will introduce a single point of failure and will be an easy target for DDoS attack.
Centralised infrastructure will be difficult to implement in industrial setup where the edge nodes are widespread geographically
Blockchain technology seems to be a viable alternative due to the key strengths described above.

Cases where blockchain can be used
It can be used to create secured mesh network that will allow IoT devices to connect securely and reliably avoiding the threats of device spoofing and impersonation.

Every IoT node can be registered in the blockchain and will have a blockchain id which will uniquely identify a device in the universal namespace. For a device to connect another device, one will use the blockchain id as URL and will use its local blockchain wallet to raise an identity request. The wallet will create a digitally signed request and send to the target device which will use blockchain services to validate the signature using the public key of the sender. In this way, M2M authentication can take place without the need of any centralised arbitrator or service.

For a device that is constrained by a resource can be connected to proxies where the wallet can be stored. This will introduce some form of aggregation but it will be fairly limited.

The above possible solution will be applicable to a wide range of IoT services. Some of the examples will be intelligent healthcare connected vehicles, logistics, transportation etc.

Cases where blockchain is not the best solution
One key benefit of using blockchain technology is its use as a distributed recording system. It allows to securely write immutable records. To do that, it used strong cryptography and replication. For example, in supply change management, a consignment has to go via a series of activities and the status of the piece of an item can be monitored via RFID and recorded using blockchain technology.

However, this comes with its overhead. The replication introduces latency. Getting a block sometimes take longer. Strong cryptographic processes introduce latency. The latencies are not acceptable in a near-time and real-time service situation. Hence, blockchain is not best suited in a recording of raw data at the source.

A slight improvisation may make blockchain adapted to near-time situations. An introduction of aggregation caching node at the closest distance of the sources can be used as a broker between source and blockchain services. However, this will be a deviation from the key strength of blockchain and must be used after careful consideration.

----

Blockchain technologies can become an excellent ally of the IoT industry. If you want to know how they can help you with safety issues, take note!

When it comes to competitive advantages in a company, the Internet of Things (IoT) turns out to be a very powerful weapon. Each piece of data collected is extremely important to initiate or successfully request an action without human intervention, in which both the privacy and security of the user are compromised.

Considering each technological and physical component of the Internet ecosystem of Things, this technology is understood as if it were a system of systems, with great business value, which needs integrated solutions and protection to complement its functionality.

How to implement Blockchain for IoT Safety
Blockchain technology began to be known with the advent of crypto coins mining since it is its main technology. But now, it also has much to do with the IoT.

The amount of data processed by IoT devices is enormous, all supplied in a chain and exposed to attacks by cybercriminals. It is in this context where the possibility arises to take advantage of the Blockchain architecture to authenticate, standardize and protect the adoption of data handled by the devices.

For IoT safety, the blockchain is able to monitor the information collected by the sensors, without allowing them to be duplicated by any wrong data. Sensors can also transfer data using Blockchain technology, without the need for a trusted third party.

In addition, we must add device autonomy, data integrity, virtual identity and point-to-point communication, all to get rid of technical deficiencies and bottlenecks.

As if that weren’t enough, Blockchain and devices related to the Internet of Things are addressable and are able to list a history of connected equipment, opening a bank so that in the future problems can be solved.

Coordination between devices
As far as IoT is concerned, Blockchain technology stands out thanks to its ability to solve scalability, reliability and privacy issues. It enables coordination between devices, as well as tracking millions of connected devices and processing transactions.

This is a decentralized approach in which cryptographic algorithms are implemented so that customer data enjoy greater privacy. It is an approach that eradicates faults and offers a resilient ecosystem.

The connectivity it provides is unprecedented because the Blockchain is based on an optimal platform, which is efficient considering solutions for the IoT require coordination so that the devices work integrated, without causing problems. It is a secure infrastructure, far from the centralized model.

A trend towards protection
For greater transparency, convenience and security, Identity Management is systems chosen by companies to control access management.

Blockchain Identity is one of those trends, for its ability to store information in chains of transactions that prevent its modification when verified. The structure stores the data equitably, preventing server leaks.

In addition, it is also important to mention Authentication systems, which require the verification of data, as well as the protection of company and staff information, approved by consensus as a right by the General Data Protection Regulations.

Processing transactions
When we speak of transactions, we refer to the actions created by the participants of the system.

Blockchain records these or digital interactions so that they are carried out in a safe, auditable, transparent, efficient and interruption-resistant manner.

Each block registers the operations with a time stamp and verifies that they are in the correct sequence, without manipulations. If someone wants to add a transaction to the chain, everyone in the network validates it through an algorithm; the approved transactions are gathered into a block and distributed to each node in the network.

The new block and successive blocks are validated with a single fingerprint corresponding to the previous block.

There are billions of transactions per device, and adopting a standardized, point-to-point communication model would reduce installation and maintenance costs in huge Big Data centres, as well as the storage of devices that make up the IoT networks, preventing errors in nodes dragged by a collapse or arrest.

So that there is no theft and much less impersonation in each transaction that takes place, it is proposed to use some kind of consensus and validation of peer-to-peer communications, so that the privacy and security of large networks of the IoT persists.

Data Tracking
On the basis of all devices that can communicate with ledgers, entrenched in Blockchain, the devices used in IoT end up being safe in transactions.

The information provided by the customer can be tracked so that the experience is smooth and continues as private and inviolable; furthermore, by using storage and encryption, every part of the chain can rely on the data.

All heavy work falls on technology, through machines, without the need for a human to execute the processes.

The blockchain is an ally for solving scalability and trust issues. The keys will always be private and nobody will be able to overwrite the codes, offering this way the security dreamed in operations of the Internet of the Things.

More advantages of Blockchain on IoT?
It is public, so those who participate can see the blocks, but not the actual content of the transaction, as they are protected by private keys.
It is decentralized and there is enough trust.
Network participants reach a consensus to approve transactions.
The database expands, although records are kept. If someone wanted to modify the previous records, the cost would be very high.
Blockchain Identity is one of the trends in high-capacity technologies such as authentication systems. These aspire to become a law, as they encompass the protection of information that benefits both businesses and individuals, a topic that has been widely discussed.
It allows you to share the use of multiple files.
It guarantees robustness and stability of resources, eliminating the flow of traffic to one and lowering the delay.
The network is secure, the user’s identity will always be private.


Privacy in IoT
Privacy is one of the main unknowns and sensitive issues raised by the IoT. So much so that throughout today’s post we will analyze the control systems and regulations in force for compliance.

The Internet of Things (IoT) is becoming more widespread every day, and this means that consumers need more and better security, which translates into privacy. All this in the face of the vulnerability represented by corporate surveillance and data breaches.

Consumers gradually unwittingly expose their privacy, as they do not know what data is collected and how it is used, for example by mobile applications or apps.
The percentage of people who do not read security policies and accept them without knowing is very high. In fact, there are those who try to read them, but their legal language is in most cases unintelligible to the average consumer, even allowing them to omit clauses that include the right to be heard in court.

IoT Privacy Control
As you know, companies are becoming increasingly crowded with intelligent things and industrial sensors; unfortunately, security will always be difficult.

Most Internet-connected devices are effectively managed by the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) which automates IPs. However, the support that gives additional functions is not regular.

Programming codes are a good answer for privacy involving the IoT, and for this, certain service providers such as Chakray have solutions 100% reliable, scalable and modular, which:

Take full advantage of the managed IoT by merging and protecting applications for mobile devices.
Compile advanced analytical IoT solutions.
Digitally connect and manage the assets of any company, regardless of size.
Regulations for IoT Privacy Control
In the specific case of the Internet of Things, privacy in layers is a policy that companies should adopt. They consist of the legal code, what is legible by man and what the machine reads.

The first refers to the actual policy that lawyers write and that judges will interpret; the second is a simple summary for the client to read and understand; while the third is the code read by search engines or software, or understood by technology that would only access the information that the consumer allows.

The implementation of the different layers would be significant progress in safety regulations.


Control systems
Nowadays, to speak of a control system for the security of the IOT is to refer directly to the response that a company must offer when the client claims security.

As a real case that deserves special mention, there is the response of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which developed privacy policies after its customers expressed in a survey their concern for information privacy and the security of connected cars.
At present, a control system corresponds to the self-regulation and practices that the industry implements on data minimization and security since it is their obligation to protect them and if they do not agree to do so, then they should refrain from collecting them.

Privacy by design is another method of the control system, in which manufacturers analyze risks and considerations at the product design stage.

In addition, it is logical that they take into account that privacy goes beyond the useful life of a piece of equipment and the acquisition of a first customer because if IoT devices were resold, the data of the original purchaser should not remain forever in the device.

The general ethical and legal framework of rights and obligations involving the IOT
Yes, more corporate transparency is needed for IoT’s privacy success, and it would be achieved through the rules that the government requires of companies and industrial self-regulation.

The Industrial Internet Consortium, the GSM Association and the IoT Security Foundation, among others, have so far generated some statutes.

These are some of the entities that are dedicated to outlining what would be projected with rights and obligations, as well as security, of the Internet of Things:

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: It has evaluated arbitration clauses and found that they frequently affect the public; and it proposes to prohibit them both in consumer financial products and services, making them valid for the client.
Department of Education: It also prohibits arbitration agreements in for-profit schools, and it approves students’ right to sue schools.
Federal Trade Commission: It works possible agreements -as an obligation- prior to disputes with companies that sell IoT articles. This entity is also asked to take action against deceptive practices if a company does not respect its privacy policies.
Federal Bureau of Investigation: In 2015, the FBI warned of IoT vulnerabilities and since then has been recommending defense and protection steps to customers.
U.S. Congress It introduced the law to improve the cybersecurity of the Internet of Things, so any device sold to the government of this country has no preset passwords, patch forms and other weaknesses. Even if it addresses only the Executive, it establishes the basis for measures taken by manufacturers. Congress also presented the state of Modern Application, Research and Trends of the IoT Law, which will be studied by the Department of Commerce.
General Data Protection Regulations: Formulated by the European Union, it is respected by the manufacturers of IoT devices and networks.

